mongoimport: add page (#6008)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/mongoimport.md

# mongoimport

> > Imports content from a JSON, CSV, or TSV file into a MongoDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Imports content from a JSON, CSV, or TSV file into a MongoDB database.
```

Reviewer 2: the db stands for database as you know, not sure about this one since that would read, "Mongo database database

Reviewer: I don't think that MongoDB is generally read as `Mongo database`.  I'm a seasoned mongo user...this is correct 😉

Author: I think about `instance` but I was expecting comments.

Reviewer: Either work fine.  Which one do you prefer?

> More information: <https://docs.mongodb.com/database-tools/mongoimport/>.

- Import a JSON file into a specific collection:

> `mongoimport --file={{path/to/file}} --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't that be `path/to/file.json`?

Author: The extension is not really mandatory. It could be a custom one too and the process won't be affected.

> `mongoimport --file={{path/to/file}} --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mongoimport --file={{path/to/file.json}} --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`
```

Author: The extension is not mandatory and the user can use whatever custom extension that he wants.

Reviewer 4: If it were mandatory, then we'd put it outside the `{{token_syntax}}`. Inside it's just a suggestion.

Reviewer 3: I actually didn't know that we do that, but there are many pages using `{{file}}.ext`.

Reviewer: Neither did I.  Though it makes sense, I don't _love_ the idea... 🤷🏻‍♂️

Reviewer 3: I'm not really a fan either.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50295997/119190725-0526b300-ba7e-11eb-82c0-b779eb8b0e23.png)

Reviewer: Yep, that's exactly why I'm not in favor of it.  The half-highligted page looks odd.

> `mongoimport --file={{path/to/file}} --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mongoimport --file={{path/to/file.json}} --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`
```

> - Import a CSV using the first line of the file to determine property names:

Reviewer 5: What about?
```suggestion
- Import a CSV file using the first line of the file to determine property names:
```
It would be similar to the `JSON file` expression above.

Reviewer 5: `as field names` also seems better to me, see [the MongoDB doc about documents](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/document/).

Reviewer: Ah, I see.  I wasn't aware that there was a specific name.  Let's use "field" then. 👍🏻

> - Import a CSV file using the first line as the field list into the localhost instance:

Reviewer: Into the `localhost` instance is really implied in all of the examples that don't have `--uri`; I think we should omit it.
```suggestion
- Import a CSV using the first line of the file to determine property names:
```

> - Import a CSV file using the first line of the file to determine property names:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import a CSV file, using the first line of the file to determine field names:
```

> `mongoimport --type={{csv}} --file{{path/to/file}} --db={{database_name}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mongoimport --type={{csv}} --file={{path/to/file.csv}} --db={{database_name}} --collection={{collection_name}}`
```

> - Import a JSON array using each element as a MongoDB's document:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Import a JSON array using each element as a MongoDB document:
```
I don't think the `'s` should be there.

> - Import a JSON array using each element as a MongoDB document:

Reviewer: "MongoDB" is implied.
```suggestion
- Import a JSON array using each element as a separate document:
```

> - Import a JSON array using each element as a MongoDB document:
> 
> `mongoimport --jsonArray --file={{path/to/file}}`

Reviewer: You might as well specify the extension here.
```suggestion
- Import a JSON array using each element as a MongoDB document:

`mongoimport --jsonArray --file={{path/to/file.json}}`
```

> - Import a JSON file into in a specific mode and query to match already existing documents:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Import a JSON file in a specific mode and query to match already existing documents:
```
Is that correct?

Author: `using`?

Reviewer 3: Absolutely.

> - Import a JSON file using a specific mode and a query to match already existing documents:

Reviewer: "already" is redudant, implied by "existing."
```suggestion
- Import a JSON file using a specific mode and a query to match existing documents:
```

> `mongoimport --file={{path/to/file}} --mode={{delete|merge|upsert}} --upsertFields="{{field1,field2,...}}"`

Reviewer: For those of you who don't know what "upsert" means 😉 it's a combination of "insert" and "update".  It updates the document, or inserts a new one if it doesn't already exist.

```suggestion
`mongoimport --file={{path/to/file.json}} --mode={{delete|merge|upsert}} --upsertFields="{{field1,field2,...}}"`
```

Reviewer 3: (https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/6008#discussion_r636840880) It just his to be in JSON format, it doesn't actually hahaves to be a `.json` file.

Author: Also, is not a valid JSON file, because MongoDB expects 1 document per line (we can call them line-separated objects). For a JSON array you should use `--jsonArray` flag, otherwise is invalid.

Reviewer: I saw that comment, but if it usually takes a JSON file, why not indicate that?  I haven't seen a tool yet that will actually break if the extension isn't a specific one.

There's a standard for that @navarroaxel: https://jsonlines.org/

Author: Yeah, for MongoDB, not for Node :grimacing:

Reviewer 4: If it's 1 JSON  object per line, then the correct file extension is [`.jsonl`](https://jsonlines.org/).

> - Import a CSV using a file with field names for the columns and ignoring fields with empty values:

Reviewer: Reads a bit clearer. Objections?
```suggestion
- Import a CSV file, reading field names from a separate CSV file, ignoring fields with empty values:
```

> `mongoimport  --type={{csv}} --file={{path/to/file} --fieldFile={{path/to/field_file}} --ignoreBlanks`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mongoimport --type={{csv}} --file={{path/to/file.csv}} --fieldFile={{path/to/field_file.csv}} --ignoreBlanks`
```

# mongoimport

> Imports content from a JSON, CSV, or TSV file into a MongoDB database.
> More information: <https://docs.mongodb.com/database-tools/mongoimport/>.

- Import a JSON file into a specific collection:

`mongoimport --file={{path/to/file.json}} --uri={{mongodb_uri}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

- Import a CSV file, using the first line of the file to determine field names:

`mongoimport --type={{csv}} --file={{path/to/file.csv}} --db={{database_name}} --collection={{collection_name}}`

> - Import a JSON array using each element as a separate document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import a JSON array, using each element as a separate document:
```

`mongoimport --jsonArray --file={{path/to/file.json}}`

- Import a JSON file using a specific mode and a query to match existing documents:

`mongoimport --file={{path/to/file.json}} --mode={{delete|merge|upsert}} --upsertFields="{{field1,field2,...}}"`

> - Import a CSV file, reading field names from a separate CSV file, ignoring fields with empty values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import a CSV file, reading field names from a separate CSV file and ignoring fields with empty values:
```

Reviewer 4: Hrm, I think it reads better with the comma.

Reviewer: With the comma it really reads like a runover, where you have `Import a CSV file, reading field names from separate CSV file`, and then `ignoring fields with empty values`, which a different though, coming in as though it were another appositive clause when it's actually unrelated.

I originally suggested removing `and` in favor of the comma, but after re-reading it a few times, it sounds better—in my opinion—with the `and`.
